pam dinner here yay welcome to b2b
marketing and more
i talk about b2b marketing in the field
of content marketing account based
marketing
mod tag specifically and strategic
planning
my channel is more about providing the
thinking process
how to address some of the marketing
challenges especially on the client side
i'm interviewing jeff coyle today and we
are going to talk about something very
very special and the topic i love
artificial intelligence let's get
started
so welcome jeff is so happy to have you
um on my show why don't you tell
everybody uh who you are and what you do
i know you have
awesome awesome product and i have seen
the demo in the past
and i loved it i couldn't i can't afford
it
but i loved it we'll talk maybe we'll
talk about that today too
i'm jeff coyle i'm the co-founder and
chief product officer for market muse
and a little bit about my background
i've been fortunately or unfortunately
in the content strategy content
marketing lead gen and search engine
optimization game for about
21 years all good things i love
everything you said the legion the
counter marketing the dimension
yay the favorite topics hard to do it
well
but you have a lot to share yeah and so
yeah i worked at a major
um one of the first people who were
selling leads
to b2b technology companies before
people even had people even had content
you know we were convincing large
multinational b2b companies to
write white papers and syndicate them
because they didn't even have them at
the time you know they probably focused
on sales collateral that's the only
thing they said
where a lot of white papers and that's
it right and
so we we kind of enhanced that space and
then we were acquired by
a major publisher i worked with them
in-house for
a number of years and during the late
phase of that i
i was doing basically editorial teams
content teams product marketing teams
and seo teams
don't always work together pam are you
aware of that they don't
always work together my god don't tell
me
and so whenever you talk about those
topics in terms of how to create a good
content and the multiple teams that
needs to come together
yes i understand i understand the pain
you know so i built all these manual
workflows from
using data in those conversations so how
does the
search engine optimization team best
communicate with an editorial team
who frankly if you just give them a
spreadsheet full of words
they're going to go tell you an
expletive and
they're going to say move on and so i
went through that i knew that there was
a
better way to provide insights from
research
and i found my co-founder at market muse
had taken one of those workflows and
automated it
the workflow is researching topics
so truly telling the story about what it
means to be an
expert on a topic and
when you turn that and you integrate
that information
into a research process that speaks the
language
of the editorial leadership that speaks
the language of the subject matter
expert
because you're not giving them a word
because of some esoteric data point
you're saying hey if you're going to
cover this topic comprehensively
you want to make sure that we have pages
about this
sections about that yes the language of
the user
and that became market muse was the
solution that
brings those teams together by providing
insights
that are going to be you know awesome
exciting amplifiers for editorial
leaders
writers but also have the same benefits
that
seos want traffic conversions leads
engagement
so everyone's happy and everyone's
working together towards the same data
driven goal
for the first time and now it's kind of
the mission of what we do
by really setting the standard for
content
quality so we've created an objective
measure
of content quality and comprehensiveness
until we tell the story of what it means
to be an expert
on anything so because hey bam i can
look at your site
and i can say you are obviously the
expert on sales enablement
but here's a few things you haven't
really covered comprehensively and you
oh yeah those are
obvious things that i should write about
yeah but yeah
if i just shot you a spreadsheet with
words in it you go yeah i'll get to that
next year
right that's the difference i hear you
so i actually uh for listeners um who
are listening i just want to let you
know i have seen the demo is actually
pretty impressive
it's a very i would say comprehensive
in terms of taking seo taking the
initial
a preparation that you need to do to
determine a topic and also create a
draft
and then move your content along the the
production stage if you will
not necessarily like when i say
production is not video production but
like creating that draft to get to the
finish line
yeah so the big thing for us is we want
to be no matter who the role
on those teams are we have the we have
amplifiers for those workloads so if you
are the person who's
coming up with what should we create or
what should we update
today that's going to have the biggest
impact on the business or let's say you
have a business school
i want to own this topic by the end of
the year
market music can tell you what articles
need to be built or what articles need
to be updated
and then we follow through with the
content briefs
so we actually build content briefs at
scale we have teams that get thousands
of content briefs
and they basically provide an outline or
a single source of truth
for the writer so when the writer
produces they can focus on being
creative
they can focus on being they can focus
on being the expert
that you're paying them for not doing
stuff that they don't want to do
like seo like doing a lot of research
and
finding the title what works what not
yeah exactly so then
when they give you that draft it's
highly likely because you built the
brief
you ordered the content with the brief
they're going to give you something
that's going to have less feedback
cycles and it's likely going to
meet the guard the guard rails the
guidelines that you've set that's what a
brief does
it creates a tree a point of reference
you know we've
automated all of those processes so you
can say okay the best article i can
write
today is on how do you make the best
product marketing materials
for events i just made that up maybe
that's not a good idea maybe it is
and we will build the outline and you
can write it and
you know that it's going to be
successful that's the goal yeah
awesome love it love it and one of the
key product features
of market muse is to use artificial
intelligence
ai to build content planning optimize
content like you said such as your blog
your white paper your thought leadership
pieces
so can you elaborate a little bit how
market meals
uses ai and how does that
helps uh the content marketers sure
thing so
we built our own natural language
processing
platform effectively one of the
components we're able to
is in a branch of ai called topic
modeling in natural language processing
and we are a machine learning kind of
think tank we have our own data science
lab in montreal called the m4 lab
and we have how big is the lab it's it's
it's
like physically it's not very big but
i'm talking about
the employees you know we have um
six team members they're devoted
specifically to ai and we have
a number of advisors who who some
some names i'm allowed to say some names
are not
it's totally they are they are um
thought leaders in the fields of natural
language processing natural language
generation
and in text linguistics
computational linguistics and other
other dynamics there so
those folks are spending nearly all
their time on back-end engineering
on this platform that can assess
effectively
what it means to be an expert on a topic
you can say this
we tell the story that if you were to
cover this topic comprehensively and
truly be an expert
how would you do it on one page how
would you do it in one cluster of
content how would you do it across an
entire site
and then we're able to overlay that
information into common workflows so we
can
take that model and map it to your page
and say here's a page level
audit of thing you wrote you missed you
had a few blind spots
okay go fix it go add a section or
we can go up to the a competitive
dynamic and go oh
across the 20 competitors who
you're researching here's the stuff they
did
and here's the stuff that market muse
says is very relevant
and no one's done and there's your area
of differentiation so we don't just tell
you how to do
everything like everybody else we tell
you how to differentiate yourself
from them that's very special that's
unique to market muse
and the site at the site level or the
network level if you've got a lot of
sites we work with a lot of large
publishers we give you basically an
on-demand content inventory and audit
and all the value that goes along with
that and it's all personalized so we're
the only in-market application
that can tell you how hard it will be
for you
to rank for a topic not just how hard it
is because that's not valuable
to me if i go if i go if i have a brand
new website
and i go write the best review of the
new iphone
ever i have no chance of getting any
traffic from organic but if i've seen
that i go write that article and i win
yeah yeah news is answers the question
of why
behind that dynamic so if pam if you go
write sales enablement tactics
for first year bdrs it's going to rank
right all right and i mean why so why is
that
and with our technology your platform
or your tool can actually identify
some of the gap or areas of opportunity
as
and well as well i call areas for
opportunities i like that term
much better and the gaps and the gaps
too um
and the gap could be a variant so
you covered this with a great long-form
thought leadership piece but you missed
a few details
or it could be vice versa you wrote a
something that answered one question and
you never spoke to the big picture
so we tell the story of what that true
user intent
profile is and everywhere you've done it
everywhere you have it what are your
most important pages to lean into
for links to point new pages to what are
your
your risk areas so we this is a big area
for us is risk
you have a page out there it's doing
well you don't even know why
and you need to support it you might
have a page that's out there
you know i call it the arm a hand
without an arm it's just out there it
just gets a bunch of traffic
and you have never supported you never
built the foundation
right you got to build that foundation
yeah to amplify and
expand that so it sounds like that you
are using artificial intelligence to do
kind of like a very holistic assessment
identify the areas for improvements
identify the gaps that you need to do
you look at at the site level at a page
level or even at a specific context
you can go to the paragraph loving any
level of specificity
even networks we can say like we tell a
large publisher if you're going to write
an article about this
tv show and you're going to write about
the actors on the tv show
you can put that over here and if you're
going to write about ways to stream it
you're going to put that over here over
there yep yep on the other side right so
we can even get into that level of
detail
and then our new technology on natural
language generation which i know we'll
talk about
is we use those briefs so if you think
about it right
market muse is the only solution how to
make
a high quality brief in an outline well
we set
guidelines for content we set guardrails
for
intent we build the topic model the next
step is obviously to start
to build out drafts yeah so it sounds
like
it's this invisible a virtual assistant
it's a virtual editorial system in a way
absolutely and you're giving you the
inspiration so that
you know if i focus on this and really
put
my energy towards it and i write a great
production value high quality wonderful
narrative that meets these guidelines
it's going to be so successful right and
now we're building out drafts that give
you inspiration
with our new offering which comes out
officially next month can't wait to see
it
it gives you the inspiration in the form
of completely original
drafts that you then you know it's
called market muse first
draft yes yes with that being said you
kind of touch the topics i want to ask
you next
obviously the latest buzz in the field
of ai
is gpt three and i read article about
a blog post you guys wrote about exposed
gpt3
in terms of what it can or can do
and for the audience who is either
watching or listening
and the gpt3 is this very powerful
language model that uses machine
learning to generate
human-like text that's what gbt3 is
and you are you leveraging gpt3 at all
or you are doing stuff on your own all
of our natural language processing
and natural language generation is all
proprietary built by us
all the models are built by us we are
not
using a library you know a google
library or a
gpt2 or three or any of the we we know
how they work we've used them yeah we
know
the dynamics gbt3 is one of the most
amazing innovations in artificial
intelligence
of all time yes up today yeah maybe
something that's coming
in the next year but as of now yes it's
quite
amazing it's it's amazing and it
the span the wideness the
amazing scale that it works at
it and the applications out of it are
significant i 100 agree with you i
addressed that a little bit
at my general session at content
marketing world 2020
and i specifically talked about that uh
a content pretty much can be written
for you if you use artificial
intelligence
similar to that as well yeah so that's
the thing
right it can be written but is it
telling the story you want it to tell
yes
does that mean you are objective does
that resonate
with uh your audience you know does that
bring
a hook yes right it's a general purpose
language model
so it's not a solution it is an api
it requires you know now in its current
form a lot of programming skills
it it provides a shallow writing
output it's lacks structure it degrades
over time
it is you know not considering your
workflows
it's certainly not optimized and it
begins to repeat it can plagiarize
it suffers from degrading gb2 suffered
from degradation
at a severe rate right it was
[Music]
you can begin to work with it
but it is still subject to that
degradation
in long-form content and in short form
content but i do agree with you i think
having a machine generate say a draft
just like you say is a draft
the human still needs to take over and
do conduct the quality check still need
to edit as
you see fit you still need to make sure
that you read it
that align with your objectives and what
you want to accomplish
yeah exactly and that's where so the the
solution market me is first draft
versus of gpt3 first of all you know
like you
you mentioned i believe the the guardian
post and
you know that is an output of eight
generations and it's
curated by editors they brief gpt3
they provide a specific instruction you
know what they want gpt threes to write
at the same time they also provided the
opening paragraph
so they provide kind of like in-depth
instruction
for the machine so machine can process
and determine how they want to write it
yeah
what uh what i'll tell you though is if
you saw all eight of those generations
back to back you wouldn't have been all
that impressed
uh i started a portion of it i didn't
see oh uh a of them
but i saw one or two but
i saw the outcome of it yeah you saw the
outcome is amazing it's curation right
you had to do work on it so the human
brain
now has never experienced the outcome of
generation
at this level washington post these are
the problems that content marketing
people need to solve are like washington
post solved with heliography right
yes i i was and they did that back in
2016 and 2017
right about the problems right the
problem was
i can't cover the election oh and the
local level
right i cover eight percent but now
heliograph lets us cover
all of them that's solving a business
problem
okay i can't cover all the olympic
events and the metals
well now i can cover all of them can we
program heliograph with rule-based
rules so that it can catch the
exceptions yeah judo has two gold two
bronze medals
okay if you just program it as a
template it's gonna miss that and it's
gonna misinform the world
so they they thought of that right
you've got
platforms out there that can do data
driven template
content it's not this right but gbt3
isn't doing either it's not producing
content
that is meeting specifications
it's not producing content that is
connecting with your goals as a content
marketer
yeah a template might even do a better
job
than that but you're not hitting targets
for
tone it's not training it training on
your content either
so marketing's first trap the unique
value is we can train it
on your blog it can write like pam yeah
i understand right to spec great answer
love it can you tell us what features
you
your team is working on in the next six
to eight months
i know product role maps tend to be
confidential
but if you can share that would be
greatly appreciated oh
yeah i share most things as you know
first of all market news first draft
it's in private alpha right now it
launches into public beta
most likely next you know towards the
end of
next month or november so it'll be
q4 it's coming out that's a big splash
also for the first time market news
is putting uh new offerings at a couple
lower price points
it's about time jeff i remember talking
to you
at a conference last year and you were
telling me like oh
our product focuses on enterprise
and i was quietly walking away from your
booth
and say thank you so much it's nice
talking to you
but i had a chance to watch the demo and
i was like oh my god this is exactly
what i need
and it helped me and the content
marketer to do seo
and the search for the right title and
identify a niche
topics that we can write about so we can
rank
organically higher than you know
whatever content we do
and i thought this is great so that's
going to be a big deal so we have those
things that's all happening in october
you know we have so much demand and we
didn't have a place
for a solopreneur we'd have a place for
a
a small team or even you know a startup
or
a small agency and now easy
decisions are there for you we're also
upgrading a lot of
our current clients based on that that's
exciting so those are huge things
so what are the pricing points can you
say that again
79 179 and 4.99
a month are our um self-service
agreements and then we have our premium
product line which will remain
at those price points uh there are some
options for
going annual which makes it even more
attractive just write in
the software i mean you can just jump in
get started
and go for the for us that's a new
frontier
it's already unlocked a lot of amazing
things we learn so much from our users
and so much from our clients one of them
i'm extremely excited about
we're going to have the most accurate
measure
for potential upside so you can forecast
how content really performs right we're
going to yeah we're gonna basically say
you are here here's the estimated
traffic and value
we're gonna have some customization for
getting even more specific into the
actual return
on investment uh right in the
application
and you'll be able to see what market
news thinks your potential upside is
right now
and then what your upside is if you were
the best
so we don't think you maybe might not
think you can be the best yet
but this is where you could get with an
easy quick win
so we're basically trying to get into
predicting
your uh likelihood of success and it's
fantastic because then that tells the
story of
when you're using it you can justify the
expense
very easily yeah exactly so
you can quantify the roi direct
quantification of value we already do it
for all our clients
with you know things like
for ubr's business reviews or through
custom reporting
um but we need that in the self-service
offering
it has to be automated right and so
we've really focused on that because
we know how successful our clients are
we need to make it easier for them to
know and and that's that's been a big
initiative
um so far huge response to this
information
and you know it's so fun to go in and
look at your content and go
oh wow if i had to go buy the same
traffic
this page generated it would cost me 10
grand a month
holy cow right i mean i didn't even know
that
yeah allowing me to also add other data
points in the future
so all of that is those are our big um
our big moves
uh we're really stretching the market
down market as well as releasing
in an innovation for the generation side
um what i'll say is nothing is in market
that comes
close to market news first draft we
would definitely look for
the announcements so is the announcement
uh sometime in october
yeah most likely it will be it could get
delayed into later in q4 but it'll be in
q4
thank you for some time well definitely
pay attention to that
um it's so wonderful wonderful to have
you on the show
i hope to see you again soon hopefully
at the content marketing world
or you know physical event yeah i did my
content marketing world
uh presentation i think we're gonna be
one and two
in the best and the second best one you
obviously the best one
we'll see how we'll see how that goes
when it comes but if you're yeah content
marketing world's going to be amazing
the lineup
uh i'm so excited to just veg out and
watch all the recordings frankly so i'm
looking forward to seeing you
virtually at the content marketing world
thank you so much for coming to my show
thank you so much fam we really
appreciate it again thank you so much
for watching the show provide the
comments below
subscribe if you can love to hear from
you
if you want to chat reach out on any
social media
channels or email me at
hellopmdinner.com i do speaking training
workshop consulting anything b2b related
if you need any help you know where to
reach me join my facebook community as
well build your marketing skills to get
ahead
love love love to hear from you take
care bye